    Founding Reason
Offense: Imperial authorities identified the need for a crusading Chapter, whether as part of an organised offensive or as a flexible strike force. This Chapter was created for that purpose, and is on its crusade to this very day. Even if the offensive that originally justified its creaton is no longer ongoing, the Chapter's identity might still be strongly influenced by it.

    Founding Date
Unknown: if any records of this Chapter's founding exist anywhere, they are not known to the Chapter, nor indeed the Imperium at large.

    Timeline Status
Pre-42nd Millennium

    Progenitor
Unknown: this Chapter, as well as the Imperium at large, has lost all records of its progenitor. There may be claims of one progenitor or another, but nothing can be proven.

    Gene-seed purity
Matches progenitor: this Chapter's gene-seed is largely identical to its progenitor's. Consequently, it likely suffers similar flaws.

    Mutations
Lost zygote: Neuroglottis

    Gene-Seed Stability
Average: this Chapter's gene-seed is, for all intents and purposes, run-of-the-mill. New flaws, deficiencies and mutations are not unheard of, particularly when used to found a new Chapter, but are manageable enough to be considered a non-issue.

    Chapter Demeanor
Strategic: this Chapter regards the proverbial 'big picture' to be paramount. Accordingly, their focus in battle is largely on strategic movements, possibly at the risk of ignoring more minute elements.

    Chapter Quirks
Peculiar Honor: this Chapter's views on what is and isn't honorable might be considered strange by the wider Imperium. This may be due to a unique internal code of conduct, cultural associations brought over from their homeworld's native population, or something else entirely.

    Legendary Figure
Force Commander, or equivalent

    Legendary Deeds
This Astartes is remembered as an accomplished warrior.
Among other heroic acts, the Chapter claims he never once suffered an injury in battle. Whether through skill or luck, the legend persists, although outsiders are typically skeptical of these claims.

    Legendary Figure's Fate
Alive: undeterred by age, wounds and foes, he still serves within the Chapter to this very day.

    Chapter Homeworld
Temperate Civilised World: this Chapter's homeworld is not dissimilar to Old Earth during the Age of Terra, in and around the 3rd millennium. The world possesses a mild climate, agreeable to most humans.

    Rule of Homeworld
Distant: this Chapter rules the world in name only, and are marginally involved in local affairs at most.

    Fortress-Monastery Type
Classic Fortress: this Chapter's Fortress-Monastery is as 'normal' as such things get, taking the form of a massive, static planetside fortification. In rare cases, it may also be multiple such locations, though likely smaller in size. In even rarer cases, the site, or sites, may be subterranean.

    Organisation
This Chapter has significantly diverged from the Codex Astartes

    Non-Codex Elements
Unorthodox Assault Marine Selection: contrary to Codex standards, this Chapter does not select its Assault Marines from its Devastators, instead preferring some other selection criteria. For example, Assault Marines may instead be selected based on temperament.
Unique Rank Combinations: contrary to Codex standards, this Chapter has folded two (or, very rarely, more) ranks into one, such as combining the roles of Apothecary and Librarian, or Chaplain and Techmarine.

    Chapter Unity
United: this Chapter is, regardless of more minute details of organisation, a single, cohesive group. There are no internal conflicts beyond what is the norm for the Adeptus Astartes.

    Combat Doctrine
Force Recon: this Chapter favors a doctrine of using smaller detachment to scout and sabotage their enemies immediately prior to attacking.
Needless to say, this is not their sole means of fighting their enemies, merely the preferred manner in which they do so, and the means by which they excel.

    Characteristic Chapter Training
Strength: this Chapter instills in its Astartes the overriding principle of strength. With enough force, there is no hide tough enough, no armour resilient enough, and no wall thick enough to withstand their attacks.

    Aspirant Recruitment
Test of Courage: this Chapter recruits its Aspirants based on their bravery. This may be tested by a ritualised confrontation with their innermost fears, orchestrating events by which they must sacrifice themselves to save someone else, or something else entirely.
Following this, they are examined by the Chapter's apothecaries to determine whether they are suited for gene-seed implantation.

    Recruitment Style
Kidnapping: this Chapter only draws its Aspirants from non-voluntary youths.

    Failed Aspirant Fate
Serf Induction: Aspirants whose bodies reject the gene-seed implants and survive are permitted to join the Chapter's Serfs.

    Serf Treatment
Indifferent: this Chapter treats its Serfs fairly, but largely disregard their presence when interaction is not necessary.

    Chapter Beliefs
Primarch Worship: this Chapter reveres its Primarch as the ultimate example of everything all Astartes should be... perhaps even what all humans ought to be.

    Chapter Strength
Unknown: somehow, records detailing the number of Astartes in this Chapter have been lost. Or, perhaps, deliberately hidden. They may simply be so thinly spread across the galaxy that an accurate account is borderline impossible, or some other cause entirely is to blame.
The Codex Astartes prescribes a standing force of 1000 marines spread across 10 Companies of 100 marines.
That number specifically refers to fighting men and does not include command or support staff.
Mortal human serfs are also not included.

    Vehicle Pool
Unknown: somehow, records detailing the vehicle inventory of this Chapter have been lost. Or, perhaps, deliberately hidden. They may simply be so thinly spread across the galaxy that an accurate account is borderline impossible, or some other cause entirely is to blame.
Note that the Codex Astartes places no limitations on a Chapter's vehicle pool. Instead, there are practical limits to consider; mainly matters of logistics, attrition, production and crewing.

    Terminator Armor Availability
Far Below Average: this Chapter's supply of terminator armor is so low that it might not be able to field any at all. It certainly has no access to rarer suits.
Note that the Codex Astartes places no limitations on a Chapter's inventory of power armor, let alone terminator armor. However, these suits are prohibitably expensive and difficult to create and maintain.
Some Chapters, however, are more likely to have a greater number of suits available than others. As an example, this is particularly true for Dark Angels successors who maintain the tradition of the Deathwing formation.

    Armory Condition
Exceptional: this Chapter's armory is unusually well-stocked, and it can fully equip every Astartes with adequate gear, and even a considerable number with superior gear. The Chapter likely has greater access to rare equipment in addition to its standard inventory.
Note that the Codex Astartes places no limitations on a Chapter's armory. Instead, there are practical limits to consider; mainly matters of logistics, attrition and production.
Some Chapters, however, are more likely to have a greater amount of rare or superior equipment. As an example, this is particularly true for Salamanders successors who maintain their progenitor's strong emphasis on craftsmanship.

    Psyker Prevalence
Average: this Chapter has an average number of psykers in its ranks. Regardless of how these psykers employ their abilities, they represent a powerful asset.

    Chapter Allies
Navis Nobilite: this Chapter has somehow pierced the unfathomable politics of the Navigators and gained the favor of one of their Houses. This may, for example, give them considerable benefits when traveling the void.

    Chapter Enemies
Orks: this Chapter has become proficient fighting greenskins. Where some disregard them as disorganised rabble, these Astartes recognise them for the true threat they are.
Naturally, this is unlikely to be their only opponent or the sole subject of their attention.
Nor is it likely they're incapable of combating other threats. This should, more often than not, be considered a preferred enemy.