    Founding Reason
Offense: Imperial authorities identified the need for a crusading Chapter, whether as part of an organised offensive or as a flexible strike force. This Chapter was created for that purpose, and is on its crusade to this very day. Even if the offensive that originally justified its creaton is no longer ongoing, the Chapter's identity might still be strongly influenced by it.

    Founding Date
8th Founding: this Chapter was created in the mid 34th millennium, during the 8th Founding. Like others of this Founding, accounts are fragmentary at best, and likely not contemporary.

    Timeline Status
Post-42nd Millennium

    Primaris Reinforcements Status
Received

    Progenitor
White Scars: this Chapter is of Jaghatai Khan's fierce lineage, whether from original White Scars stock or through a successor Chapter.

    Gene-seed purity
Matches progenitor: this Chapter's gene-seed is largely identical to its progenitor's. Consequently, it likely suffers similar flaws.

    Gene-Seed Stability
Stable: this Chapter's gene-seed is remarkably stable, significantly more so than what is average. New flaws, deficiencies and mutations are practically unheard of, even when used to found a new Chapter.

    Chapter Demeanor
Honest: this Chapter cannot tell a lie, for one reason or another. While some will appreciate their sincerity, others might consider them neurotic in their obsession with honesty. Others again might point out that lies can be avoided by telling technical or half-truths... or by absolute silence.

    Chapter Quirks
Hospitable: this Chapter places extraordinary importance on the integrity of guest rights. Imperilling anyone under their protection is considered a grave offense, and failing to protect a guest is a serious stain on their honor.

    Legendary Figure
Chapter Master, or equivalent

    Legendary Deeds
This Astartes is remembered for his dedication to battling the upstart tau.
Among other heroic acts, he was responsible for the deaths of multiple Ethereals, demoralising their people. There has been no shortage of tau curses directed at him.

    Legendary Figure's Fate
Traitor: it happens on occasion that Astartes must either die, lest they live long enough to betray their brothers. Whether falling to Chaos or simply going rogue as a renegade Astartes, whatever the reason might have been, he turned his back on the Chapter, and may even have taken others with him.

    Chapter Homeworld
Arid Hive World: this Chapter's homeworld is the site of numerous hive cities, each home to billions of Imperial citizens, spanning entire continents. The world possesses a very dry climate, and may feature extensive deserts.

    Rule of Homeworld
Direct: this Chapter rules the world themselves, and are personally involved in local affairs.

    Fortress-Monastery Type
Classic Fortress: this Chapter's Fortress-Monastery is as 'normal' as such things get, taking the form of a massive, static planetside fortification. In rare cases, it may also be multiple such locations, though likely smaller in size. In even rarer cases, the site, or sites, may be subterranean.

    Organisation
This Chapter adheres to the Codex Astartes

    Codex Elements
Proselytic Interpretaton: this Chapter actively seeks to convince non-compliant Chapters of the Codex' superiority.

    Chapter Unity
United: this Chapter is, regardless of more minute details of organisation, a single, cohesive group. There are no internal conflicts beyond what is the norm for the Adeptus Astartes.

    Combat Doctrine
Terror: this Chapter favors engaging the enemy using psychological warfare, employing fear as its foremost weapon.
Needless to say, this is not their sole means of fighting their enemies, merely the preferred manner in which they do so, and the means by which they excel.

    Characteristic Chapter Training
Brotherhood: this Chapter instills in its Astartes the paramount value of their bond with their brothers in arms. Consequently, their performance is noticeably higher when in the company of their brothers.

    Aspirant Recruitment
Self-Discovery: this Chapter recruits its Aspirants based on their capacity for introspection. This may be tested by extended meditation, consumption of hallucinogenics, or something else entirely.
Following this, they are examined by the Chapter's apothecaries to determine whether they are suited for gene-seed implantation.

    Recruitment Style
Kidnapping: this Chapter only draws its Aspirants from non-voluntary youths.

    Failed Aspirant Fate
Servitor Conversion: Aspirants whose bodies reject the gene-seed implants and survive are turned into servitors.

    Serf Treatment
Respectful: this Chapter treats its Serfs well, recognising the significance of their work. Interaction is fairly common, even when not strictly necessary.

    Chapter Beliefs
Primarch Worship: this Chapter reveres its Primarch as the ultimate example of everything all Astartes should be... perhaps even what all humans ought to be.

    Chapter Strength
Normal: this Chapter numbers ~1000 Astartes. This number is likely to occasionally fall, but their current numbers are largely stable.
The Codex Astartes prescribes a standing force of 1000 marines spread across 10 Companies of 100 marines.
That number specifically refers to fighting men and does not include command or support staff.
Mortal human serfs are also not included.

    Vehicle Pool
Significantly Under-strength: this Chapter's vehicle pool is so small that its worth as a force multiplier has been noticeably impacted. The Chapter is likely unable to field some of the rarer vehicles otherwise available to the Adeptus Astartes.
Note that the Codex Astartes places no limitations on a Chapter's vehicle pool. Instead, there are practical limits to consider; mainly matters of logistics, attrition, production and crewing.

    Terminator Armor Availability
Average: this Chapter's supply of terminator armor is on par with expectations. The Chapter likely even has access to a number of rarer suits as well.
Note that the Codex Astartes places no limitations on a Chapter's inventory of power armor, let alone terminator armor. However, these suits are prohibitably expensive and difficult to create and maintain.
Some Chapters, however, are more likely to have a greater number of suits available than others. As an example, this is particularly true for Dark Angels successors who maintain the tradition of the Deathwing formation.

    Armory Condition
Average: this Chapter's armory is on par with expectations, and it can fully equip every Astartes with adequate gear. The Chapter likely has access to some rare equipment in addition to its standard inventory.
Note that the Codex Astartes places no limitations on a Chapter's armory. Instead, there are practical limits to consider; mainly matters of logistics, attrition and production.
Some Chapters, however, are more likely to have a greater amount of rare or superior equipment. As an example, this is particularly true for Salamanders successors who maintain their progenitor's strong emphasis on craftsmanship.

    Psyker Prevalence
Average: this Chapter has an average number of psykers in its ranks. Regardless of how these psykers employ their abilities, they represent a powerful asset.

    Chapter Allies
Navis Nobilite: this Chapter has somehow pierced the unfathomable politics of the Navigators and gained the favor of one of their Houses. This may, for example, give them considerable benefits when traveling the void.

    Chapter Enemies
Asuryani: this Chapter has become proficient fighting Craftworld Eldar. Thought by some to be the irrelevant remnants of a dying species, these Astartes know all too well the perfidy of these farsighted xenos.
Naturally, this is unlikely to be their only opponent or the sole subject of their attention.
Nor is it likely they're incapable of combating other threats. This should, more often than not, be considered a preferred enemy.